Add release notes for 1.18.0 (#4375)
line/armeria: site/src/pages/release-notes/1.18.0.mdx

---
date: 2022-08-05
---

## 🌟 New features

- <type://DocService> can now render Markdown and [Mermaid](https://mermaid-js.github.io/mermaid/)
  formatted documentation for annotated services #4299 #4304

```java Markdown
@Description(value = "### Markdown format", markup = Markup.MARKDOWN)
@Get("/markdown")
public HttpResponse markdown() {
  return HttpResponse.of(200);
}
```

```java
@Description(value = "graph TD;\n" +
                     " A-->B;\n" +
                     " A-->C;\n" +
                     " B-->D;\n" +
                     " C-->D;",
             markup = Markup.MERMAID)
@Get("/mermaid")
public HttpResponse mermaid() {
  return HttpResponse.of(200);
}
```

> - It is now possible to bind decorators to gRPC services using <type://GrpcServiceBuilder>. #4311 #4316

Reviewer: How about
```suggestion
- You can now bind decorators to each gRPC service using <type://GrpcServiceBuilder#addService(BindableService,Iterable)>. #4311 #4316
```

```java
GrpcService.builder()
  .addService(myGrpcService, List.of(decorator)) // 👈👈👈
  .build();
```

- gRPC users can now use an <type://UnframedGrpcErrorHandler> which provides a
  [richer error model](https://cloud.google.com/apis/design/errors#error_model) for unframed requests.

```java
GrpcService
  .builder()
  .addService(myGrpcServiceImpl)
  .unframedGrpcErrorHandler(
    UnframedGrpcErrorHandler.ofRichJson()) // 👈👈👈
  .build();
```

```json
{
  "code": 2,
  "message": "A custom message!"
}
```

- Users can now extract the innermost element of <type://Unwrappable> type objects easily using <type://Unwrappable#unwrapAll()> #4338
```java
Foo foo = new Foo();
Bar<Foo> bar = new Bar<>(foo);
Qux<Bar<Foo>> qux = new Qux<>(bar);
assert qux.unwrapAll() == foo; // 👈👈👈
```

## 📈 Improvements

- <type://RequestContext> now extends <type://Unwrappable>. #4308

## 🛠️ Bug fixes

- You no longer see an intermittent <type://IllegalStateException> for gRPC services
  when <type://GrpcServiceBuilder#useBlockingTaskExecutor(boolean)> is enabled. #4367 #4374
- Requests no longer hang when gRPC-JSON transcoding is enabled and gRPC decorators return an unframed response. #4337 #4348

> - Files from OSGI bundle class loader are now correctly served #4371 #4373

Reviewer: How about mentioning `HttpFile` because the exception is raised when a user uses it?
```suggestion
- You can now use <type://HttpFile> to serve files from the OSGI bundle. #4371 #4373
```

> - Server metrics related to a request's start time are now correctly

Reviewer: How about
```suggestion
- A request's start time on the server side is now correctly
```

  recorded when a server receives the first header. #4365 #4372

> - You no longer see a false positive warning for unknown `MethodType` when using gRPC clients. #4363

Reviewer: Probably using `of` is proper?
```suggestion
- You no longer see a false positive warning of unknown `MethodType` when using gRPC clients. #4363
```

---
date: 2022-08-05
---

## 🌟 New features

> - <type://DocService> can now render Markdown and [Mermaid](https://mermaid-js.github.io/mermaid/)
>   formatted documentation for annotated services. #4299 #4304
> 
> ```java

Reviewer: Let's align the examples in this section.
```suggestion
- <type://DocService> can now render Markdown and [Mermaid](https://mermaid-js.github.io/mermaid/)
  formatted documentation for annotated services. #4299 #4304

  ```java
```

---

> date: 2022-08-05

Author: ```suggestion
date: 2022-08-08
```

  formatted documentation for annotated services #4299 #4304

```java Markdown
@Description(value = "### Markdown format", markup = Markup.MARKDOWN)
@Get("/markdown")
public HttpResponse markdown() {
  return HttpResponse.of(200);
}
```

```java
@Description(value = "graph TD;\n" +
                     " A-->B;\n" +
                     " A-->C;\n" +
                     " B-->D;\n" +
                     " C-->D;",
             markup = Markup.MERMAID)
@Get("/mermaid")
public HttpResponse mermaid() {
  return HttpResponse.of(200);
}
```

- It is now possible to bind decorators to gRPC services using <type://GrpcServiceBuilder>. #4311 #4316

```java
GrpcService.builder()
  .addService(myGrpcService, List.of(decorator)) // 👈👈👈
  .build();
```

- gRPC users can now use an <type://UnframedGrpcErrorHandler> which provides a
  [richer error model](https://cloud.google.com/apis/design/errors#error_model) for unframed requests.

```java
GrpcService
  .builder()
  .addService(myGrpcServiceImpl)
  .unframedGrpcErrorHandler(
    UnframedGrpcErrorHandler.ofRichJson()) // 👈👈👈
  .build();
```

```json

> {
>   "error": {
>     "code": 2,
>     "message": "A custom message!"
>   }
> }

Reviewer 2: By the way, did we decide to remove the enclosing `error` block?
```suggestion
{
  "code": 2,
  "message": "A rich error message!",
  "details": [
    {
      "@type": "type.googleapis.com/google.rpc.ErrorInfo",
      "reason": "Unexpected exception...",
      ...
    }
  ]
}
```

Author: Oh, I thought we didn't remove it for some reason 😅   Thanks for pointing this out 👍

Reviewer 2: I missed the discussion. I prefer to support the open-source/community version first.
 We may add Google API compatible version later if there is a demand for it.

```

- Users can now extract the innermost element of <type://Unwrappable> type objects easily using <type://Unwrappable#unwrapAll()> #4338
```java
Foo foo = new Foo();
Bar<Foo> bar = new Bar<>(foo);
Qux<Bar<Foo>> qux = new Qux<>(bar);
assert qux.unwrapAll() == foo; // 👈👈👈
```

## 📈 Improvements

- <type://AnnotatedServiceBindingBuilder> and <type://VirtualHostAnnotatedServiceBindingBuilder> now

>   extend a single interface. #4205 #4210

Reviewer 2: I think it is an implementation detail. So should we remove this? Users would not get useful information from this.

Author: Agreed 👍

- <type://RequestContext> now extends <type://Unwrappable>. #4308

## 🛠️ Bug fixes

- You no longer see an intermittent <type://IllegalStateException> for gRPC services
  when <type://GrpcServiceBuilder#useBlockingTaskExecutor(boolean)> is enabled. #4367 #4374
- Requests no longer hang when gRPC-JSON transcoding is enabled and gRPC decorators return an unframed response. #4337 #4348
- Files from OSGI bundle class loader are now correctly served #4371 #4373
- Server metrics related to a request's start time are now correctly
  recorded when a server receives the first header. #4365 #4372
- You no longer see a false positive warning for unknown `MethodType` when using gRPC clients. #4363
- You no longer see a `NoSuchElementException` while a <type://HealthCheckedEndpointGroup> is closed. #4349
- <type://ClosedSessionException> and <type://ClosedStreamException> are raised correctly according to their usage. #4380
- The timeout for client's endpoint selection isn't clamped by `responseTimeout` anymore. #4383

## ⛓ Dependencies

> - Brave 5.13.9 -> 5.13.10
> - Bucket4j 7.5.0 -> 7.6.0
> - Curator 5.2.1 -> 5.3.0
> - Dropwizard metrics 2.1.0 -> 2.1.1
> - GraphQL-Java 18.2 -> 19.0
> - GraphQL-Kotlin 5.3.2 -> 6.1.0
> - gRPC-Java 1.47.0 -> 1.48.0
> - java-jwt 3.19.1 -> 4.0.0
> - Jetty 9.4.46.v20220331 -> 9.4.48.v20220622
> - kafka-clients 3.2.0 -> 3.2.1
> - Kotlin 1.7.0 -> 1.7.10
> - Kotlin Coroutine 1.6.3 -> 1.6.4
> - Micrometer 1.9.1 -> 1.9.2
> - Netty 4.1.78.Final -> 4.1.79.Final
> - Protobuf 3.19.2 -> 3.21.1
> - Reactor 3.4.19 -> 3.4.21
> - RESTEasy 5.0.2.Final -> 5.0.4.Final
> - Sangria 3.0.0 -> 3.0.1
> - Scala 2.12.15 -> 2.12.16, 3.1.2 -> 3.1.3
> - scala-collection-compat 2.7.0 -> 2.8.1
> - Spring Boot 2.7.1 -> 2.7.2
> - Spring Web 5.3.21 -> 5.3.22
> - Tomcat8 8.5.78 -> 8.5.81
> - Tomcat9 9.0.62 -> 9.0.65

Reviewer 2: Should we replace `->` with `→`?
```suggestion
- Brave 5.13.9 → 5.13.10
- Bucket4j 7.5.0 → 7.6.0
- Curator 5.2.1 → 5.3.0
- Dropwizard metrics 2.1.0 → 2.1.1
- GraphQL-Java 18.2 → 19.0
- GraphQL-Kotlin 5.3.2 → 6.1.0
- gRPC-Java 1.47.0 → 1.48.0
- java-jwt 3.19.1 → 4.0.0
- Jetty 9.4.46.v20220331 → 9.4.48.v20220622
- kafka-clients 3.2.0 → 3.2.1
- Kotlin 1.7.0 → 1.7.10
- Kotlin Coroutine 1.6.3 → 1.6.4
- Micrometer 1.9.1 → 1.9.2
- Netty 4.1.78.Final → 4.1.79.Final
- Protobuf 3.19.2 → 3.21.1
- Reactor 3.4.19 → 3.4.21
- RESTEasy 5.0.2.Final → 5.0.4.Final
- Sangria 3.0.0 → 3.0.1
- Scala 2.12.15 → 2.12.16, 3.1.2 → 3.1.3
- scala-collection-compat 2.7.0 → 2.8.1
- Spring Boot 2.7.1 → 2.7.2
- Spring Web 5.3.21 → 5.3.22
- Tomcat8 8.5.78 → 8.5.81
- Tomcat9 9.0.62 → 9.0.65
```

---
date: 2022-08-05
---

## 🌟 New features

> - <type://DocService> can now render Markdown and [Mermaid](https://mermaid-js.github.io/mermaid/)
> formatted documentation for annotated services #4299 #4304

Reviewer 2: nit: Indent?
```suggestion
- <type://DocService> can now render Markdown and [Mermaid](https://mermaid-js.github.io/mermaid/)
  formatted documentation for annotated services #4299 #4304
```

```java Markdown
@Description(value = "### Markdown format", markup = Markup.MARKDOWN)
@Get("/markdown")
public HttpResponse markdown() {
    return HttpResponse.of(200);
}
```

```java Mermaid
@Description(value = "graph TD;\n" +
                     " A-->B;\n" +
                     " A-->C;\n" +
                     " B-->D;\n" +
                     " C-->D;",
             markup = Markup.MERMAID)
@Get("/mermaid")
public HttpResponse mermaid() {
    return HttpResponse.of(200);
}
```

- It is now possible to bind decorators to gRPC services using <type://GrpcServiceBuilder>. #4311 #4316
```java
GrpcService.builder()
           .addService(myGrpcService, List.of(LoggingService.newDecorator()))
           .build();
```

> - Armeria's gRPC users can now use an <type://UnframedGrpcErrorHandler> which provides a
> [richer error model](https://cloud.google.com/apis/design/errors#error_model) for unframed requests.

Reviewer 2: `Armeria`s` looks redundant. 
```suggestion
- gRPC users can now use an <type://UnframedGrpcErrorHandler> which provides a
[richer error model](https://cloud.google.com/apis/design/errors#error_model) for unframed requests.
```

```java

> Server.builder()
>       .service(GrpcService.builder()
>                           .addService(grpcService)
>                           .unframedGrpcErrorHandler(UnframedGrpcErrorHandler.ofRichJson())
>                           .build());

Reviewer 2: Remove `Server.builder()` for simplicity?
```suggestion
GrpcService
  .builder()
  .addService(myGrpcServiceImpl)
  .unframedGrpcErrorHandler(
    UnframedGrpcErrorHandler.ofRichJson()) // 👈👈👈
  .build();
```

```

```json
{
	"error": {
		"code": 2,
		"message": "A custom message!"

> 	}

Reviewer 2: Use white spaces instead of tabs; and 2 spaces for indentation?

}
```

> - Multipart file upload is now available for GraphQL users. #3971 #4199

Reviewer 2: Note: Maybe this is rescheduled to 1.19.0.

```java
GraphqlService service =
    GraphqlService.builder()
...
                  .runtimeWiring(c -> {
                      c.scalar(MoreScalars.multipartFile());
                      DataFetcher<String> upload = environment -> {
                          MultipartFile multipartFile = environment.getArgument("file");
                          ...
                      }
                      c.type("Multipart", typeWiring -> typeWiring.dataFetcher("upload", upload));
                  })
...
```

- Users can now extract the innermost element of <type://Unwrappable> type objects easily using <type://Unwrappable#unwrapAll()> #4338
```java
FooDecorator extends SimpleDecoratingHttpClient {
...
    @Override
    public HttpResponse execute(ClientRequestContext ctx, HttpRequest req) {
        Object innermost = unwrapAll();
        ...
    }

> }

Reviewer 2: Personally, I prefer the example used in the Javadoc of `unwrapAll()`. 😉
https://github.com/line/armeria/blob/master/core/src/main/java/com/linecorp/armeria/common/util/Unwrappable.java#L96

```

## 📈 Improvements

> - <type://AnnotatedServiceBindingBuilder> and <type://VirtualHostAnnotatedServiceBindingBuilder> now
> extend a single interface. #4205 #4210

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- <type://AnnotatedServiceBindingBuilder> and <type://VirtualHostAnnotatedServiceBindingBuilder> now
  extend a single interface. #4205 #4210
```

- <type://RequestContext> now extends <type://Unwrappable>. #4308

## 🛠️ Bug fixes

> - You no longer see an intermittent <type://IllegalStateException> for gRPC services
> when <type://GrpcServiceBuilder#useBlockingTaskExecutor(boolean)> is enabled. #4367 #4374

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- You no longer see an intermittent <type://IllegalStateException> for gRPC services
  when <type://GrpcServiceBuilder#useBlockingTaskExecutor(boolean)> is enabled. #4367 #4374
```

- Requests no longer hang when gRPC-JSON transcoding is enabled and gRPC decorators return an unframed response. #4337 #4348

> - Files from OSGI bundle classloader are correctly served #4371 #4373

Reviewer 2: It seems that `class loader` is officially used.
https://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/lang/ClassLoader.html
```suggestion
- Files from OSGI bundle class loader are now correctly served #4371 #4373
```

> - Server metrics related to a request's start time are now correctly
> recorded when Armeria's server receives the first header. #4365 #4372

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Server metrics related to a request's start time are now correctly
  recorded when a server receives the first header. #4365 #4372
```

- You no longer see a false positive warning for unknown `MethodType` when using gRPC clients. #4363
- You no longer see a `NoSuchElementException` while a <type://HealthCheckedEndpointGroup> is closed. #4349
- <type://ClosedSessionException> and <type://ClosedStreamException> are raised correctly according to its usage. #4380
- The timeout for client's endpoint selection isn't clamped by `responseTimeout` anymore. #4383

## 🏚️ Deprecations

- N/A

## ☢️ Breaking changes

- N/A

## ⛓ Dependencies

TBU

## 🙇 Thank you

<ThankYou usernames={[

>   'CLAassistant',

Reviewer 2: It should be a bug. 😱 😱 😱
```suggestion
```

Author: Oh.. 😅   Let me also push a fix for this in the script 🤣
